## Wardrop Response

Bobby Brooks    

February 17th

Wardrop introduces a top down approach to spatial data science in which researchers take large, wholesale data such as census reports and attempt to disaggregate the data in order to model population or other trends in areas in which the census is underrepresented or misleading. Wardrop also introduces a bottom up approach in which researchers take small scale data - such as a mailing list for a rural area in a third world country - and attempt to scale up the data in order to accurately display a population dasymmetric map for an area in which the population is not accurately mapped. An advantage that both methods share over traditiional methods such as census modeling is that they are both more adaptive. Both top down and bottom up procedures involve disaggregating data, allowing for data to be more easily manipulated, and therefore, more accurately presented than traditional methods allow. A disadvantage to the bottom up procedure is that because of the lack of readily available large scale data, researchers are forced to rely on covariates in order to scale up population estimates. The problem with using covariates is that they are not perfect corrolaries to population. A map showing low plant density, for example, does not necessarily indicate that the area has a high population. Conversely, top down approaches often struggle to scale down the data. It is difficult to disaggregate already compiled data, but the data needs to be disaggregated in order for the approach to be the most accurate it can be.
